# [Home](README.md)

# 1. Install `R`

The first step for this unit is getting `R` installed and setup on
your computer. `R` is primarily a language. To have a nicer way to
interact with and use `R` we will use RStudio. RStudio is known as an
*I*ntegrated *D*evelopment *E*nvironment or IDE. It is a program that
helps to keep your code, output, graphs, and files all together in one
place.

## Windows OS

1.  Follow [this guide](https://www.datacamp.com/community/tutorials/installing-R-windows-mac-ubuntu)


## Mac OS

1.  Make sure that you are running a current (ideally latest) version
    of Mac OS (at time of writing: 10.14, Mojave). 

2.  Using the app store, install and open Xcode. If you need a guide,
    see [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m9m6HozVjo8)
	
3.  Follow [this guide](https://www.datacamp.com/community/tutorials/installing-R-windows-mac-ubuntu)


# 2. Try `R`

To make sure that `R` and RStudio are installed and working correctly,
follow these steps:

1.  Find and open RStudio on your computer.  There should be four
    "windows".
	
2.  Go to the window named "Console" and click at the prompt. The
    prompt is just this symbol: ">".
	
3.  At the console prompt, type this code and then press "enter"/"return":

```r 

3 + 1

```

If everything worked, `R` should return the answer, 4.

# 3. Learn about RStudio

To find out a bit more about RStudio, you can watch this <5 minute
[video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V_NoBcxpYC8).

If you want something for future reference on RStudio,
try this 
[cheat sheet](https://github.com/rstudio/cheatsheets/raw/master/rstudio-ide.pdf).

# 4. Learn about `R`

To begin learning `R` we are going to be using the online platform,
DataCamp. Follow the instructions on Moodle for getting your account
setup. Then head over to [DataCamp](https://www.datacamp.com/), sign
in with your Monash account, and go to "My Class". Note the first 1-2
weeks will be fairly instense as to follow the class, you need to get
up to a basic ability to read and follow `R` code. The "due dates" in
DataCamp are not part of your grades, but they are *strongly*
recommended so that you can take best advantage of the rest of the
unit.

In particular, **before the first class on Wednesday, 6 March** please
try your best to complete the course *Introduction to R*. After
lecture 1, there is another large chunk of DataCamp assignments on
importing data into `R` and Intermediate `R` use that are 
**due before Wednesday, 13 March**. Once you've gotten through all of
these, you will have a solid foundation and the rest of the unit will
be easier to follow. Also, no other weeks have so many assignments.
